You know. he used to read
this to me when I was a kid.
Aw.
Wait. he did?
Yeah. I loved it.
I'd never heard
a story like that before.
I bet.
I think it's bullshit
we don't get to give him at
least. like.
a little memorial service.
I know.
I just wish we could honor him.
you know?
Send him off in the right way.
We will.
When things get back to normal.
Here.
Go through these.
Do you think. uh...
That he's still. like...
Um...
I mean.
do-do you believe in...
You know. like. um...
- Heaven?
- Yeah.
Hmm.
You know.
I don't think there's some
magical place in the clouds
where all the ghosts
hang out.
All right.
But I really do think that
the people
who have passed on...
They stay with us.
They guide us.
Alex?
You guys should
come see this.
Why do you wanna join
the Off-Planet
Expeditionary Force?
OPEF is where the best
of the best are. sir.
Your commanding
officer seems to think that
you put in for a transfer to
avoid the consequences
of some problematic behavior.
Problematic behavior?
Like me being
the top rifle expert at MCT?
She says you have
a tendency to isolate.
That you don't socialize
with the other members
of your unit.
Because they're a bunch
of drunks. sir.
I see you've attended three
different high schools.
and been suspended twice.
Can you explain why?
Houston's school system's
a war zone.
Some tweakers tried to start
a fight. I finished it.
Then the bleeding-heart
principals blamed me.
With all due respect. sir.
what does this have to do
with me joining OPEF?
Unit cohesion.
You'll be confined in
tight spaces with
the other members of your unit
for extended
periods of time.
and you won't be able to
just open a door
and walk off your frustration.
I can handle that. sir.
Do you have any diagnosed
or undiagnosed history
of depression?
I don't do depression. sir.
I leave that to
the philosophy majors.
Why did you take
your stepfather's last name?
I didn't. sir.
My mother changed my name.
What kind
of relationship did you have
with your biological father?
He died when I was a baby.
I don't remember
a thing about him.
As far as I'm concerned.
my father is Tom Jarrett. sir.
Do you worry you
might share some of his traits?
I hope so. He raised me.
I wasn't talking
about your stepfather.
I meant astronaut
Daniel Stevens.
He's not my father.
Almost ready?
Don't wanna be late
for your first day.
You don't think.
like. um...
You don't think Grandpa
would think I'm playing
it safe. do you?
Alex. your grandfather
didn't spring from the womb
as an admiral.
He started out swabbing decks
just like everyone else.
You gotta start somewhere.
and it doesn't have to be
forever. okay?
Just...
...give the job a few weeks.
see if you like it.
That's all I ask.
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
You told Dev I-I didn't want
any special treatment. right?
Yes. Alex.
For the millionth time. I did.
Okay.
I'm gonna be home
late tonight.
We're running sims
for the Titan landing.
Okay.
Wait. wait. Hold on.
Um...
Here.
What's that?
I found it
in Grandpa's stuff.
Wow.
Gosh. I haven't seen
this since...
I don't even know when.
I was thinking you should
take this with you
to Titan when you leave
next week.
You could name a-a mountain.
or a methane lake
or something after Grandpa.
You know?
I love that idea.
I will.
Once you log in.
you will access this database.
You will parse these records
from the last eight years.
extract the personal energy
consumption figures.
and run them through
this conversion program.
- Can you do that?
- Yeah. yeah. yeah. I ca...
- Uh. yes. ma'am.
- I prefer Ms. Joshi.
Right. right. Ms. Joshi.
J-Just to say. by the way.
Um...
Whatever I can do to help
the team. I will.
I just wanna be treated
like everyone else here.
Why would I give
you special treatment?
No...
Sorry.
No. I-I'm sorry.
I'm saying you shouldn't.
If you need any assistance.
you can ask your colleagues.
Right.
Thank you.
Vestibule leak check is good.
Hopper 17.
T-minus 60 seconds
to Mars descent.
Hopper 17. Phoenix.
Proceed with undocking.
Request clearance
for separation.
Max Q. 679 mass at 1.07.
Prop ISO valves open.
RCS thrusters enabled.
Hopper 17.
you are clear for separation
and Mars descent.
Copy. Phoenix.
Undocking successful.
Firing RCS thrusters at 15%.
Beginning rotation.
You are clear of departure
vector 325.
Roger.
Departure vector 325.
Holy fuck.
Aleida.
How was the trip?
A fucking month in zero-G.
I'm still feeling
a little wobbly.
People usually spend more
time on Phoenix getting
reacclimated to the gravity.
Well. we don't have time
to waste.
Very true.
I'm really on Mars.
I can't believe it.
Well. you ready for a walk?
Come on.
I could use a drink.
That can be arranged.
Mr. Ayesa.
what can I do for you?
Nothing. I'm just looking
for this guy.
Look at you.
A working man.
- How you getting on?
- Good.
Uh. Ms. Joshi's been great.
Come up to my office.
there's something
I wanna talk to you about.
Yeah. Yeah.
The high-speed maglev
train runs along the side here.
There's a baseball field.
and check out the beach.
- The-the what?
- It's actually built over
the refuse processing facility.
The energy created from
the incinerator underneath
powers the waves.
That is brilliant.
Yeah.
Thought you'd like that.
You know. that's
the whole idea of this place.
When you're inside.
one of its million residents.
you might as well be
in London or Copenhagen.
Meru's food.
life support and power
will be completely
self-sustaining using
entirely local resources.
Everything manufactured
here on Mars.
We will no longer be reliant on
the inefficient shipments
of supplies from Earth.
Truly
in control of our own destiny.
Wow.
This looks so perfect.
Almost too perfect.
Too perfect?
I don't know. I mean.
like. too planned.
You know. too complete.
I mean. there's no room
for people to make it their
own. you know?
It's dangerous to
give people too many options.
It confuses them.
Yes. but this isn't a ship
or a computer. it's a home.
- Okay. uh... When I was...
- ...When I was little. yeah.
my mom hated how claustrophobic
the pods were.
So she tore off the cabinet
doors and filled them with
our books and my toys
and other stuff from Earth.
I don't know. I...
Okay. maybe you could make
parts of the base
like more modular.
more flexible.
like the hab walls.
Even the-the public spaces.
I mean. you could give it
a little more breathing room.
You know?
Like. make... I don't know.
really make people feel like
they're free.
I... I...
Sorry.
That was a stupid idea.
No. it's a good point.
But that's not
a simple change though.
Something like that.
the redesign.
resourcing material. delays...
That's several million dollars
at least.
Oh. shit.
I'm sorry. I-I didn't mean...
But if you can come up
with an affordable plan
for flexible living spaces.
I'll make the change.
I mean... Well...
- Ms. Joshi needs me to...
- Don't worry about her.
Just focus on the work.
Wow.
I want you to feel
like you can make
a real contribution here.
Meru will be your home too
one day.
So he starts walking
down the line...
- What can I get ya?
- Uh. gimme a Coke.
You're an asshole!
You're one asshole!
Close enough.
he's standing in front of me.
He leans in so that close you
can see the veins
throbbing in his eyeballs.
And I just burp in his face.
- No. you didn't.
- I did.
Well. clearly you didn't
piss him off too much.
- Yeah.
- You're going to the moon. baby.
Yeah.
- Semper fi.
- Semper fi!
- I am so jealous of you.
- In zero-G. baby.
Hey. Ruiz.
You got accepted to OPEF?
Start training in two weeks.
Hey. guys. This is Jarrett.
She was in Lethal Lima with me.
You hear back from OPEF yet?
They're giving me a second poly.
Fuck.
- What?
- Somebody must've poisoned the well.
Yeah. After the poly.
they interview the people
closest to you.
Your family. your
childhood friends. classmates.
If anyone says something
that conflicts with
your answers. you're fucked.
You must've got fingered
for something.
Here I thought you were
a goody two-shoes.
Yeah. Any skeletons
in your closet. Jarrett?
Fuck you.
Or are you just an alkie?
You're sucking that Coke down
like it's going out of style.
Hey!
- Or maybe they just figured out...
- What the hell. Jarrett?
...you're a fucking psycho.
- Say that shit again.
I fucking dare you!
- Hey. hey. Get... Come on.
- Say it! Fucking say it!
- Hey. hey. Get off him. Get off.
Fuck you!
To Titan.
Whoo!
So you're just never
gonna bring it up. huh?
Bring what up?
Korolev.
Oh. you mean cutting
the legs from my life's work?
- Nah. I wasn't planning on it.
- Kelly.
I swear I did everything I
could to save
your research program.
I know. I know.
It took me a while.
but I get why you did it.
I'm just glad I kept
the expletive-filled vidmail
in my drafts folder.
Look. I still believe
there's life on Mars.
And if we're gonna find it.
Korolev's the best
place to look.
But I might not be the one.
and that's okay. 'cause...
I'm gonna find it on Titan.
I guarantee you that.
Damn straight.
So tell me
about your Sojourner team.
I mean. Walt is the commander.
but how are
the rest of the team?
- They're great.
- Mm-hmm.
You know.
incredibly smart. driven.
Best of the best.
And they all hate my guts.
Oh. come on.
That can't be true.
It's Walt's crew.
and I'm the outsider.
Well. it's not the worst thing
for people at work
not to love you.
They bother you less.
You would say that.
No. I just... I want them to
know I'm a team player.
Well. I'm glad to hear
you say that.
You know. I wasn't sure
if after your dad...
If you'd still be up for it.
or if you'd need more time.
Which would be totally
understandable.
No. it's...
It's the opposite.
This mission meant
so much to him.
and he was actually the one who
pushed me to get on the crew
as a pilot in the first place.
I really was sorry to hear
about him.
It's been over a month...
and it still feels
like it happened yesterday.
Sometimes I come home from
work and I still expect to...
...hear him bitching
about that damn ankle monitor.
Yeah.
Those things
that drive you crazy about them.
those are the things
you miss the most.
Yeah.
Starting to see that.
But it's made me appreciate
the time I have
with my kids now.
Even though I still mostly just
complain about them.
- How are they?
- Mmm.
Javi's been touring
with his band.
Oh. my God.
I would love to hear some
of his music sometime.
No. you wouldn't.
And. uh. Graciana...
She couldn't wait for me
to leave. Practically booted me
out the door.
Ugh. same with Alex.
He can't wait to get
the whole hab to himself.
Okay. uh. one last shot
and then we're going to bed.
- Right?
- Yeah.
Aunt Aleida.
Aunt Aleida. wake up.
Oh. fucking hell.
Alex?
Oh. wow.
You got huge.
Mars gravity.
Is that coffee?
Yes. Yes.
And aspirin.
She raised you well.
Speaking of which.
where is your mom?
Uh. not sure.
But she was in rough
shape this morning too.
What the hell did you
two get up to last night?
Oh. you know.
Just catching up.
Hey. you're going to.
uh. Helios. right?
Yeah. Yes. yes.
All right. Uh.
I'll come with you.
Give me five minutes.
Just. uh. need a second.
You know. I... No. no.
No. no.
Give me ten minutes.
Uh... Okay. cool.
There you are.
How was the ride?
Did you talk to OPEF about me?
Well. hello to you too.
Come on in.
What'd you say
to them?
Well. I told them
that you are. uh.
incredibly bright.
Uh. highly motivated.
tenacious. and that they'd be
lucky to have you.
What else?
They asked about your family.
My dad?
And your uncle.
And your grandmama.
and your grandaddy too.
What'd you say?
I said that your father
was very talented.
But that he had
serious psychological issues.
They already know that.
It's in his service records.
I said that
living in the shadow
of what he did...
It wasn't easy on you.
It was a burden you took up.
and it wasn't yours to carry.
They're giving me
a second poly.
Good.
That means you're still
in the running.
In fact. it means
they really like you.
Otherwise. they wouldn't bother
giving you a second shot.
I just...
I can't screw it up.
- Then be honest.
- I was.
My dad. he's not...
He's never been
part of my life.
I don't give
a shit about him.
Avery. come sit down.
Your dad
became an astronaut because
he had something to prove
to the world.
That he could live up
to the legacy
of his parents.
And because he thought that
that was what was
expected of him.
But deep in his heart.
it wasn't what he wanted.
He lied
to his superiors. to Ed.
to me. and to himself.
That is what killed him.
And if you're doing all this
just to prove you aren't him.
you'll fail too.
I want my own life.
No one else's.
Then tell them that.
That is what
they need to hear.
Uh. excuse me.
You gonna just walk on through
here and not say hello
to Avery?
Hi. Avery!
- She's getting big.
- Too big.
I can hardly keep up with her.
Come on. eat something.
Actually. I should get back to Pendleton.
Already?
Wait. y-you just got here.
Yeah.
I'm sorry I came
in so hot.
Come here.
You know I love you
no matter what. right?
And you're gonna need that fire
in your belly for
what's to come.
I love you too.
I'm surprised
to see that.
After everything
that happened between you.
Love. hate.
The older you get.
the more you start to realize
they're not so different.
The war of words between
corporate rivals
in the Space Race is heating up
as dueling missions to Titan
are launching within days
of each other.
Russian aerospace firm Kuragin
launched their craft. Kosmos-1.
from Kazakhstan just yesterday.
While the Helios-funded
mission...
is said to launch from Mars
in less than a week.
They both seek to be the first
to find signs of life
in our solar system.
Protests have grown
in regions of the Soviet Union.
the largest in Vilnius
and Kiev.
as members of anti-Soviet
independence movements
are spreading in the wake
of the flailing Soviet economy.
Along with the US
and other M-6 nations.
Moscow has invested heavily
in iridium mining on Mars.
But shipments of
the valuable resource
have slowed as tensions at
Happy Valley continue to rise.
Mm-hmm.
Hmm?
Mmm.
How far away is this?
Just another minute.
Oh. Jesus Christ.
How's everything going?
Yeah. Yeah.
everybody's been really nice.
Ah. I'm actually back down
another floor.
But you're good. yeah?
Yeah. I'm good.
Hey. thanks for being my guide.
Yeah. of course.
Ms. Rosales.
he's expecting you.
- Uh. can I get you a coffee or something?
- I'm okay.
Ms. Rosales?
Right this way.
Did you want some coffee?
Wow.
I thought I'd give
you a moment to savor
what we've built together.
Dev.
I need to talk
to you about...
I am so glad
you're finally here.
I'm so glad you finally came
up. I've been waiting for you.
Okay.
But the fact remains
that this company
has become dysfunctional. Dev.
We can't keep working
at cross purposes.
I'm trying to keep
Helios solvent.
meanwhile you're spending
hand over fist
on this fucking city on Mars.
Which you announced without
even giving me a heads-up.
Hey. look. I get it.
I haven't always been
the most communicative person.
But in my life.
I've lost trust in people.
Been stabbed in the back
by those closest to me.
See. the difference with me
is I'll stab you in the front.
I don't doubt that.
So are we good? Or are we gonna
talk about our feelings
all day?
All right.
Then let's get down
to business.
Two things.
First is that the new
plasma engines on Sojourner
aren't reaching rated power.
Won't even get us to orbit.
Second. if we do get them to work.
we're gonna hit Titan's
atmosphere like a bat out of hell.
We need more accurate
atmospheric scale-height
calculations
for the aerobraking maneuver.
Don't we have the data
from Walt's seekers?
Yes.
But that won't match conditions
when we get there.
Without real time
scale-height figures...
Sojourner might just skip off
the atmosphere
and get sucked into Saturn.
Or come in too hot.
Burn up on entry.
So bad day either way.
Kuragin's planning
an aerobrake maneuver
for their mission.
They must have a scale-height
figure for those conditions.
- They'd be crazy to launch without it.
- So how'd they get theirs?
Pretty sure they'd consider
that proprietary information.
Okay.
I think I have a solution.
But I'm gonna need some time.
If we don't get that number.
they'll beat us.
I'll get it.
- Good morning.
- Morning.
- What's up. Mario?
- What's up?
Uh. G Money. which server
has the space elevator
schematics?
I just need to know how much
weight. uh. the platform can
hold for the Meru cargo.
Server 36. Axl Rose.
Why are all
your references from the '80s?
Takes longer
for shit to get to USSR.
Are you... I'm sorry.
are you sure this is it?
Yes. cowboy.
I ever see a man holding
a bull by the tail. you're it.
Oh. my God. Please stop.
Rio Bravo.
- Uh. sorry. Ms. Joshi.
- Mmm. yes?
I-I just can't seem to get
access to this folder
on Server 36.
Uh. yeah.
Oh. You have to have
level three security clearance
from the M-6 for files
with that heading.
And how do I get that?
Took six months from
when I applied.
Can I just use your
computer then?
Nice try.
It was. like. weird. You know?
The folder was in Cyrillic.
which I only kind of understand
because my grandma kept. like.
drilling it into my head
as a kid. but...
It said. uh...
Uh. automation.
Hmm.
Why is that weird?
'Cause the space elevator isn't
supposed to use any automation.
The unions made.
like. a big fuss about it.
Well. what do
you think is in that folder?
Wow. Are...
Sorry. are you asking me
right now.
or are you reporting for NNC?
Is that... Yeah.
Like they actually ask me to do
anything besides make coffee.
Seriously. what do you think's in it?
I don't know. okay?
I couldn't see it. I didn't
have the proper
clearance level.
Oh. come on.
When has that ever stopped you?
Remember when you hacked into
the vending machines on SL2
and we had free soda
for. like. all of junior year?
Yeah. and I almost got
suspended for it.
You almost.
When I was growing up.
he was just a picture
on a wall.
My mother told me
how much he loved me.
and when I was little.
I believed that.
I used to lie in bed
at night...
Look out the window
at the stars...
thinking maybe somebody
made a mistake
and that he was still alive
up there.
That one day he would just land
his spaceship in the backyard.
Scoop me up in his arms and
tell me how much he missed me.
When did you
learn the truth about him?
High school.
The other kids started
calling me "psycho bitch."
Said I was as crazy
as my old man.
I'd take it for as long
as I could.
then I'd start fighting back.
Is that why you
joined the Corps?
To prove them wrong?
No.
I joined to serve my country.
Same as my dad and his
dad before him.
Ma'am. the lidar density maps
and atmospheric thermal
profiles
you requested from
Dr. Griebel finally arrived.
Also. I printed out that
monthly operations report
that you asked for.
- Good. Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
Also. knocking first would be nice.
Oh. Sorry. um. we actually
have an open door policy here.
Dev doesn't really
believe in closed doors.
Well. I do.
Yes. ma'am.
Wait.
Hold on. come back.
It says here
that a delegation from Kuragin
is slated to come up
here next week?
Does it have anything to do
with our Titan launch?
I'm sure it has
something to do with the space
elevator construction.
It is behind schedule.
Get me
whatever information you can
on them.
Yes. ma'am.
Okay.
Joshi Priya.
Okay. Here we go.
Okay.
"Replacement of Mars personnel
with automation."
"Achieve automation of 98%
of all Mars operations"?
Oh. What the hell?
Fuck it. Fuck it.
Look at you burning the
midnight oil.
Sorry. I didn't mean
to scare you. I know it's late.
It's totally all right.
I'm sorry. I just...
I get so focused. you know?
I like your desk.
Oh. Yes. yeah.
Thank you.
- So what are you working on?
- Oh.
Uh.
Just data entry.
Mainly... You know?
Hey. don't put too much
pressure on yourself. okay?
Not the worst thing to take
a break every once in a while.
Yes. Yeah. yeah.
Feel that. Feel that. A lot.
Starting right...
I will take a break right now.
- You take a break right now.
- Ah. yes. Yeah.
- See you later. kiddo.
- Have a good night. Aleida.
Holy shit.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah.
It's not just
about the space elevator.
- They're gonna...
- Automate everything.
Asteroid mining. iridium
refinery. the metal mills.
the hopper. even Phoenix.
They can't do this.
They already are doing it.
Kuragin's been bringing
equipment up here for months.
off the books.
And then what happens
to everybody living here?
- Their jobs are...
- It says here
that they'll just ship everyone
back to Earth
within a few years.
We gotta let people know
about this.
I can give it to my boss
at NNC. and I...
- What?
- Uh.
- What? What is it? Alex...
- Uh. Yeah. I just...
I just... I-I need
to talk to Dev. Um.
- Alex.
- No...
He's clearly
involved in this.
But it doesn't make sense.
He believes in Mars
more than anybody.
Then why were these files
found on Helios servers?
Everybody knows that nothing
happens over there
without his say so.
Look. I know you're close
with him. but we have to let
people know about this.
I need some time
to think about it. okay?
Okay.
Coke. please.
AJ.
That shit before.
We were drunk.
Sorry things got out of hand.
Anyway. fuck the poly.
right?
You're a good Marine.
Those machines
don't know shit. anyway.
Well...
Then I guess it's too bad
that I passed.
You what?
You heard me.
Yo!
Tabasco's going to the moon!
Tabasco!
Tabasco! Tabasco! Tabasco!
Tabasco! Tabasco!
Good job.
Tabasco! Tabasco! Tabasco!
See you later.
Ladies and gentlemen.
I am very proud to introduce
you to these intrepid
adventurers.
Now. they're about to expand
mankind's reach
by one billion kilometers
as they journey to Titan.
The moon of Saturn.
And their aim is to bring back
what possibly is the first
life from another world.
They include
flight engineer Stuart Fraser.
Geologist Elena Beaufort.
Flight engineer and propulsion
specialist. Oleg Vyshinsky.
Mission pilot. Kelly Baldwin.
And Commander Walt Griebel.
Settle down.
Settle down. please.
It is easy for us sometimes
to forget why we're all here.
But we are all explorers.
It is because each and every
single one of you that this...
this endeavor doesn't
fall apart.
So today is a celebration.
But not only of the mission.
It's a celebration of you.
who make it possible.
Now this is a proof of what
we can achieve
when we all come together.
Each one of you helping to push
mankind's reach further
into the stars.
Alex?
In here.
Hey.
You okay?
Yeah. Course.
You sure?
Yes. yes. I'm fine.
Stop worrying.
So. uh...
last night on Mars. huh?
I know.
And I picked up
just the thing to celebrate.
What. s-spaghetti night?
Come on. I need your help
with the garlic bread.
Okay. I-I'll be right there.
- All right.
- Okay.
Engine self-check
is nominal. Flight.
Ascent. is
Sojourner go
to initiate start sequence
on ascent engines
one through six?
Pumps armed. magnetic
containment active. RF power on
standby. Go for engine start.
Ma'am.
I have that information
you asked for.
Thank you.
Aleida.
Ready for launch.
Let's get started then.
Capcom. tell Sojourner
we have a green board.
Sojourner-Titan. we show
all systems go for your ascent.
Copy. Mars. We're as
ready as we'll ever be.
VASIMR status?
Reactors nominal.
tokamaks stable.
ICH is powering up.
Injectors now at
operating pressure.
Ascent engines show green.
mainstage engines at standby.
Guidance is now running
program four zero two.
L-minus six.
Five. Four. Three.
Two. One. Zero.
We have lift-off.
And clear. Twenty meters
100 meters.
Good ascent profile.
Secure a rotate
to azimuth zero-niner-seven.
Rotating to
azimuth zero-niner-seven.
Mainstage thrusters ready.
And forward motion.
From the reports
we're receiving.
today marked a successful
launch for Sojourner-T
and her crew of five.
a mission funded
by Helios Aerospace.
endeavoring to land
on Titan. a moon of Saturn.
Their objective is nothing less
than to discover life.
The crew includes
exobiologist...
...daughter of renowned
astronaut Edward Baldwin...
...who recently passed away.
She joins a team lead
by Walt Griebel.
The implications of such
a discovery would be
groundbreaking.
potentially reshaping how
humanity conceives of itself...
...potential applications
for biomedicine here on Earth.
The pharmaceutical
corporations are taking note.
positioning themselves to cut
deals with either Helios...
...this discovery.
What is it?
Not surprisingly.
Helios and Kuragin's stock
have both plummeted...
Oh. my God.